PRIMATYPE GAME SYNOPSIS

Lithio (the developer's pseudonym)

Version 0.2 January 20, 2022


REVISION HISTORY

Version Date       Description of Changes
0.1     12/22/2021 First draft
0.2     01/20/2022 Added revision history, front page, section numbers,
                   and many other organization methods


TABLE OF CONTENTS

Revision History
Table of Contents
Terms and Abbreviations
1 About This Document
2 Game Audience
3 Game Design
  3.1 World
  3.2 Themes
  3.3 Gameplay Mechanics
  3.4 Inspirations
References


TERMS AND ABBREVIATIONS

Primatype, M3PW: codename for this game project
Map: a space in game where the player can move and interact with things


1 ABOUT THIS DOCUMENT

Purpose
The purpose of this document is to give an understanding of how the game is planned to look like. The world, themes and gameplay mechanics of the game will be described.


2 GAME AUDIENCE

The target audience for this game is older teenagers aged around 17 and older. This decision was made because younger audiences are more inclined to play games that older audiences like. However, the reverse is usually not true.


3 GAME DESIGN

The world of the game, themes and gameplay mechanics will be described


3.1 WORLD

The world takes place in a loosely-defined place resembling our planet Earth. The time is post-apocalyptic - millions of years after humans have gone extinct. There are remnants of man-made technology. The current life forms are plants and animals, both real and mythical. The player is born as a dragon in a quiet region where not much technological innovation is present. There are multiple cities in the region with different species living in them.


3.2 THEMES

This game will have themes of technology and day-to-day interactions between dragons and the other species. The player will play as a dragon and he will have to communicate with other species in order to progress through the game.

This game will teach about technologies that have changed the world, and will change the world. The average player may not have a technical mindset at the point of joining but he will walk out with a better understanding [1]. Technologies in this game will be public transportation in the form of centipede trains and eugenics in the form of dragons being born with certain traits, for example.


3.3 GAMEPLAY MECHANICS

The player will be controlled from a 2D top-down perspective. Combat interactions will be in real-time. When a single player prototype is successfully made, a multiplayer prototype will be made. There are short term objectives and long term objectives to the game.

In the 2D top-down perspective, the player can move vertically and horizontally.

Between cities, there will be a number of maps where the player must make his way through enemies. The player has appropriate attacks based on the type of dragon species, such as fireball for fire dragons. Enemies will hurt the player upon touching them.


3.4 INSPIRATIONS

The gameplay mechanics take inspiration from a few RPG's such as RuneScape, MapleStory and Ragnarok online. The transportation system and travelling takes inspiration from platformer games like Hollow Knight. The top-down perspective and level design will take inspiration from RuneScape, but the real time combat mechanics take more inspiration from Ragnarok Online. 


REFERENCES

[1] Primatype paper notes, page 49
