PRIMATYPE PROTOTYPE

Lithio (the developer's pseudonym)

Version 0.2 February 26, 2022


REVISION HISTORY

Version Date       Description
0.1     02/05/2022 First Draft
0.2     02/26/2022 Revising Implementation section


TABLE OF CONTENTS

Revision History
Table of Contents
Terms and Abbreviations
1 About This Document
2 Prototype Features
  2.1 Gameplay Mechanics
  2.2 Technical Specifications
3 Implementation
  3.1 Maps
  3.2 Instantiation and Execution
  3.3 Player Movement
  3.4 Camera
4 Future Versions
References


2 PROTOTYPE FEATURES

What to expect from the prototype is discussed here.


2.1 GAMEPLAY MECHANICS

The prototype will have a map screen where the player can move around and collide with map objects. Players and and monsters are not fixed on a tile grid but map objects are. The player moves from map to map by walking into a portal object. The player will also collide with the map boundries if there are no map objects. Players have limited health and must strategically attack monsters while avoiding getting hit. Hitting monsters will push them back. The player will get pushed back from being hit. Losing too much life will result in the game being over.

From the description above, there are a few map screens; map objects, portals and monsters contained within each map; a combat system; a collision system; and a map warping system.


2.2 TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS

The prototype will be coded in the graphical C++ primatype engine developed throughout last year. Networking capabilities will not be included in the project. A new class called Space will be introduced to implement collision detection and smooth movement calculations. The window resolution is 640x480 using simple low effort sprite graphics.

If time permits, a console window version will be made. The SDL2 library will be used to handle input.


3 IMPLEMENTATION


3.1 MAPS

A single PNG image will contain a sprite map for the various elements needed for this prototype. Each map square is 64x64 pixels wide. 

The map data is stored as a text file containing integer values for each tile in the map. The first two integers in the file are the width and height of the map. The next width*height integers contain tile data.

Tile data is calculated: 2 * tile id + collision ? 1:0

Map 0 is the mother dragon cave.
Map 1 is outside the cave.

Tile 0 is cave floor
Tile 1 is cave wall
Tile 2 is outside sky
Tile 3 is outside wall
Tile 4 is outside ground

Portals will be implemented by hard coding. They will have a position, dimensions, map destination, and destination position.

3.2 INSTANTIATION AND EXECUTION

The game will run as the following:
1. The player runs the game application.
2. The game starts in the mother dragon cave (map 0).
3. The player moves freely.
4. The game changes to a map transition state when entering a portal.
5. The player is placed in a different map
6. The game changes back to the main gameplay state.
7. The player's HP and EXP is indicated

There will be a separate class called MapTransition. There will always be one instance of MapTransition. MapTransition will be invoked by the player when the player uses a portal and the following process will occur:
1. MapTransition disables the player and map instances.
2. MapTransition unloads the map and loads the destination map
3. MapTransition enables the player and map.

Combat is implemented as the following:
1. The player moves within a certain range of a monster.
2. The monster starts moving towards the player.
3. The monster makes an attack when close enough.
4. The player and monster's attack will push the opponent back
5. There will be a damage display after each attack.
6. The monster disappears when its HP is 0.
7. If you lose all your HP, you die. There is a death message and you can't move.
8. The monsters' attacks are all avoidable using strategy.


3.3 PLAYER MOVEMENT

The player moves at 3 tiles per second. The player's speed has a relaxation time of 0.5 seconds. The movement is calculated using the Space class using the velocity verlet method. 


3.4 CAMERA

There is an offset on the camera based on player position. Each offset component is determined as:

map size * tile size < screen size:
offset = (screen size - map size * tile size) / 2

player midpoint < screen size / 2:
offset = 0

player midpoint > map size * tile size - screen size / 2:
offset = map size * tile size - screen size / 2

default:
offset = player midpoint - screen dimensions / 2


4 FUTURE REVISIONS

There will be NPC's to talk to, more maps to access, a quest system (hopefully!).
